## High Level Code Structure

This page will describe how the code for this project is structured, starting
with a high level description followed some more in depth paragraphs describing 
the inner working of the GUI.

### Widgets

Every interactive element of the GUI is called a `Widget`.  The widget is the 
bass type for e.g. the Slider, Toggle and Button. But also the Gui element
and the Panel element inherit from Widget. The widget class handles all things
like mouse presses, mouse releases, mouse movenent, key presses, creates the 
elements that get drawn etc. See the [Widget Code Info](/documentation/0004/widget-code-info)
page for more info.

### Gui

The `Gui` element extends the Widget class and is a container for elements like
Sliders, Buttons, Toggles, etc.. It's a pure container type which takes also 
care of aligning the added sub-widgets. 

### Panel

The `Panel` is another container type. But now it's not a container for types
like Sliders, Toggles, Buttons, etc. but it's a container for other Guis. The 
Panel element allows you to stack multiple Guis on top of each other. A Panel 
is given a certain height. When the contained elements extend the height you can 
use the scrollbar to scroll to the desired element.

### Render

`Render` is the interface for the graphics API. Using a Render interface allows
us to use this GUI in OpenGL, DirectX etc.. At this moment we focus on getting 
everything ready for OpenGL. After that an implementation for DirectX will follow.

### Storage

The `Storage` interface is used to save and load the settings of a Panel, Gui or multiple
Panels, Guis. For now Remoxly ships with a basic XML storage class that uses the 
fantastic and uber fast [rapidxml](http://rapidxml.sourceforge.net/) parser. 