## Widget Code Info

The `Widget` type is the base type for all elements. Sliders, Toggles, Buttons, etc
all extend from this type.  Widgets are added to `Gui`s.  And Guis are added to 
`Panel`s. Guis and Panels are widgets too.  Therefore each Widget can be a container
for other elements to.

The rest of this article will describe the workflow to follow when you want to create
a new Widget. I'll write this long the way while developing the simple RGB color slider.

### Basic Code for the ColorRGB Widget

We'll begin by creating the necessary files. This RGB color picker will be our `ColorRGB`
widget and therefore we create, the `include/gui/ColorRGB.h` and `src/gui/ColorRGB.cpp` files. We use
old c-style header safe guards which are prefixed with `REMOXLY_`.  You add the new cpp file
to the `projects/gui/build/CMakeLists.txt` file so it's compiled.

When your widget only needs simple mouse click interaction, you need to implement the 
`onMousePress()` and `onMouseRelease()` functions. Though, because our RGB color picker will
use mouse dragging we need to implement `onMouseMove()` too. Every widget that wants to 
draw something needs to implement the `create()` function. In `create()` you tell the `Render`
object what kind of things you want to draw.  So a basic header for our ColorRGB widget 
will look like this.

````c++
#ifndef REMOXLY_COLOR_RGB_H
#define REMOXLY_COLOR_RGB_H

#include <gui/Widget.h>

class ColorRGB : public Widget {

 public:
  ColorRGB(std::string title, float* rgb);
  void create();
  void onMousePress(float mx, float my, int button, int modkeys);
  void onMouseRelease(float mx, float my, int button, int modkeys);
  void onMouseMove(float mx, float my);
    
 public:
  float* rgb;
};

#endif
````

Because we extend the Widget type, we need to follow some of it's rules.
These rules are reflected in the constructor and are pretty minimal. First, 
you need to tell what type your widget is. This is simply a numeric value, for
which the standard values are defined in `gui/Types.h`.  Secondly each widget
needs a label. And I almost forgot, because the Gui and Panel elements stack
the widgets, we set the `h` member. As a rule of thumb we use a value of 22 for 
most elements, but it's completely up to you to define your own size. Note that
we use a bounding box for the actual positioning. We will go into that later.
Our basic implementation looks something like this now. 

````c++
#include <gui/ColorRGB.h>
#include <gui/Gui.h>
#include <gui/Render.h>

ColorRGB::ColorRGB(std::string label, float* rgb)
  :Widget(GUI_TYPE_COLOR_RGB, label)
  ,rgb(rgb)
{
  h = 22;
}


void ColorRGB::create() {
}

void ColorRGB::onMousePress(float mx, float my, int button, int modkeys) {
}

void ColorRGB::onMouseRelease(float mx, float my, int button, int modkeys) {
}

void ColorRGB::onMouseMove(float mx, float my) {
}
````

Because we follow the rule that each constructor needs to accept all information
that it needs to function we need to ask for a float* for the ColorRGB element that 
will point to a RGB array with 3 elements. 

### Drawing The Visual Elements

Our ColorRGB widget will show a couple of rectangles next to each other with each 
a different color. Creating visual elements is exactly what should be done in 
the `create()` function. You use the `render` member inside your create() 
function to draw. You can have a look at the `Render.h` file for some
info on what kinds of things you can draw.  A very basic implementation of your
draw() function may look like this: 

````c++
void ColorRGB::create() {
  render->addRectangle(x, y, w, h, gui->bg_color, true);
}
````

This will draw a rectangle at x, y with the given width (w) and height (h). In this
example we've set the height value in our constructor. The x,  y, and w values are set
by our container. At this moment we used a fixed width of 275 pixels. 

It's recommended that you use the colors from the used color theme. The color theme
can be accessed directly through some members of the Gui. Each widget will have a 
`gui` member that it can use to access these values. The standard color members
are:

  - `gui->bg_color`: Use this for drawing your background elements
  - `gui->fg_color`: Use this for drawing foreground elements 
  - `gui->label_color`: Use this for alpha text 
  - `gui->number_color`: Use this for number text
  - `gui->button_color`: Use this for buttons
  - `gui->panel_color`: Use this for "big" backgrounds. (e.g. gui/panel) background
  - `gui->highlight_color`: Use this color for extra attention (e.g. mouse clicks)

Because the create() function of ColorRGB involves a bit more work which will
make it harder to understand how to implement a widget, we'll focus on a simple
widget that just gives feedback when the users clicks the widget. 

### Handling Mouse Interaction

Mouse interaction is handled in functions like onMousePress(), onMouseRelease(),
onMouseMove(), onMousePressOutside() and onMouseReleaseOutside(). You should only
use these functions to update the internal state of the Widget and to indicate
that you want to redraw your element. Do not implement other logic then state
changes because it will make your Widget harder to understand and you'll probably
end up getting stuck at some point. So remember, only change state in the 
functions that are used to handle mouse and/or keyboard interaction. 

In this example we will change our state on a mouse press first. Each Widget has a 
`state` member that keeps all the state. We use bit flags to toggle states on and 
off. We use one state member to keep track of all the different states that a 
Widget can be, because this means we only need to have one member that can 
be used to store all different states. Plus, we can check easily on "combined" states. 
For example you might want to be able to check mouse presses on a disabled widget. 
This means that reading the code is a bit more difficult for some people. Therefore 
a really quick recap with some examples:

````c++
// enable a state
state |= GUI_MOUSE_DOWN_INSIDE;

// disable a state
state &= ~GUI_MOUSE_DOWN_INSIDE

// check for a state
if(state & GUI_MOUSE_DOWN_INSIDE) {
    // yes state is enabled.
}
````

The mouse press is handled in our onMousePress() function. We make use of the
macro `GUI_IS_INSIDE_WIDGET` to check if the mouse press is inside the 
visible area of our widget. The GUI_IS_INSIDE_WIDGET uses the x, y, w, h 
members to check if the given mouse coordinates are inside it.  If you want to
check any other area for mouse clicks you can use the `GUI_IS_INSIDE(mx, my, x, y, w, h)`
macro. In this example we will add the state `GUI_STATE_DOWN_INSIDE` to the state
member when the user clicks on the widget. Then we ask to redraw this widget
and draw a rectangle with a highlighted color. After releasing the mouse
we will unset the state again and redraw the rectangle with a normal background
color if needed. 

Our onMousePress() and onMouseRelease() functions look like this. Notice
that we set `needs_redraw` to true whenever the state changes. All reflected
state is handled in create() though.

````c++
void ColorRGB::onMousePress(float mx, float my, int button, int modkeys) {
  
  if(GUI_IS_INSIDE_WIDGET(this, mx, my)) {
    state |= GUI_STATE_DOWN_INSIDE;
    needs_redraw = true;
  }
}

void ColorRGB::onMouseRelease(float mx, float my, int button, int modkeys) {
  
  if(state & GUI_STATE_DOWN_INSIDE) {
    needs_redraw = true;
  }

  state &= ~GUI_STATE_DOWN_INSIDE;
}
````

And we changed our create() function to use the `gui->highlight_color` member
to draw the rectangle using the highlight color when the mouse is pressed. 

````c++
void ColorRGB::create() {
  
  if(state & GUI_STATE_DOWN_INSIDE) {
    render->addRectangle(x, y, w, h, gui->highlight_color, true);
  }
  else {
    render->addRectangle(x, y, w, h, gui->bg_color, true);
  }
}
````

Because we want to show some visual feedback when the user presses something 
in a Widget and we don't want to write an if statement for each color change
you can use any of the following Gui functions to toggle colors, based on the
state of the widget:


`gui->getButtonStateColor(Widget*, int flag = GUI_STATE_DOWN_INSIDE)`  
This will return the highlight color when the given flag value is stored in 
the state member of the widget. If the flag is not set it will return the normal 
button color.

`gui->getForegroundStateColor(Widget*, int flag = GUI_STATE_DOWN_INSIDE)`  
This will return the highlight color when the given flag value is stored in the 
state member of the widget. If the flag is not set it will return the normal foreground 
color.

`gui->getBackgroundStateColor(Widget*, int flag = GUI_STATE_DOWN_INSIDE)`  
This will return the hightlight color when the given flag value is stored in 
the state member of the widget. If the flag is not set it will return the normal
backbground color. 

`gui->getStateColor(Widget*, int flag, float* off, float* on)`  
This is a generic function that can be used to return any `on` or `off` color
based on the given flag. When the flag is present in the state member of the 
widget it will return the `on` color, else it will return the `off` color.

Now that we've shown the different functions that you can use to retrieve the 
correct color for the visuals you draw, this is an improved version fo the 
create function. 

````c++
void ColorRGB::create() {
  render->addRectangle(x, y, w, h, gui->getBackgroundStateColor(this), true);
}
````

### Bounding Box, Size and Positioning

In every Gui positioning is one of the toughest things to implement. For our
container elements, which are the Gui and Panel types we make a distinction 
between things which are visually shown/drawn and the actual size an element
want to take in the Gui/Panel.  The bounding box of a widget determines how
a container like the Gui/Panel will position the widgets on top of each 
other (for now we only support stacking of widgets). On the other hand, 
you use the x, y, w, h members in your widget to align the things you want
to draw. The x, y and w members will most likely be set by your container.
 Each Widget has a member called `bbox` with four elements:
       
  - `bbox[0]`:  top left `x` position      
  - `bbox[1]`:  top left `y` position      
  - `bbox[2]`:  the boudning box `width` 
  - `bbox[3]`:  the bounding box `height`

We use the `setBoundingBox()` to set the bounding box values of a widget. 
In most situations you don't need to override the basic implementation of 
this function. Though, lets say you only want to draw a rectangle with an 
height of 22, but you want your element to take at least 100 pixels of space 
in the gui. Then you'll need to override the setBoundingBox() function. 

It's important that you check if your element is actually drawn when 
setting your `bbox` member. If your element isn't drawn you probably 
don't want your bounding box to take up any space. This is handling in 
the default setBoundingBox function; You can use the `isDrawn()` member 
function of a widget to check if it should be drawn. If not, make sure to 
set all bounding box values to zero. In the following example, we make sure
that the bbox member will contain only zeros when it's not drawn (by calling
the default Widget::setBoundingBox() function) and set the height to 100 
pixels if it's being drawn. This function won't make any sense, but gives a 
good example of how the bbox is used. 

````c++
void ColorRGB::setBoundingBox() {

  if(!isDrawn()) {
    Widget::setBoundingBox();
    return;
  }

  bbox[0] = x;
  bbox[1] = y;
  bbox[2] = w;
  bbox[3] = 100;
}
````

We also have the `position()` function. The position function allows
you to set the positions of children element or to calculate any 
other x/y positions. When this function is called the current x, y and 
w will hold valid values, calculated by the container. The container
is probably a Gui or Panel. See the `Slider<T>::position()` function where
we position some members. 

