## BitmapFonts

The sub project BitmapFont uses BMFonts to render text using a font 
texture and a xml file which describes all the information necessary to
nicely align the characters next to each other. We use some specific BMFont
settings that gives us the sharpest rendering for the Gui project. Therefore
you need to follow the rules described below.

The BitmapFont class uses fonts that are generated by the BMFont application. The 
API for this class is optimized for performance. We follow the "page" 
metaphore, you write on a page and then you present. That means that you 
first need to call write one time for each of the lines of text your want to 
render  (somewhere in your setup function) and then call draw() in your render loop. 
We use this approach because we don't want to regenerate all the vertices everytime 
you render something. Of course you can do this and as long as you don't render 
thousands of characters it will run just fine; but if you want most performance make
sure to only call write() only when your text changes. 

Creating fonts with BMFont
--------------------------

We use [BMFont](http://www.angelcode.com/products/bmfont/) and you must
follow these settings. We use fixed heights because this eases use with 
the calculations for the vertices and may help if you want to create solid
backgrounds for the characters. 

Options > Font Settings:  

- Size: e.g. 13px         
- Height %: 100
- Turn off all other checkboxes!


Options > Export Options                                  

- Padding: all zero
- Spacing: 1, 1
- [x] Equalize the cell heights
- Texture: Use a power of 2 sized texture 
- File Format: XML
- Textures: PNG
- Turn off all other checkboxes!

When you've set all the settings, you can create the bitmap font by 
doing `Options > Save bitmap font as...`. Copy the .fnt and [name]_0.png 
files to the same directory.
