 
 # Remote
 
 This project implements the remoteing features of Remoxly. At this 
 moment I'm still working on the server/client/serialization/deserialization
 parts. Information below in mainly used to give some development information
 on how the remoting will work.

 The remoting will make use of websockets and for now we use libwebsockets 
 for the server implementation. 
 

 ### Server:

 The server is created to handle multiple, different guis. The general idea
 is that an c++ application which has a Gui (or just a gui description/model), 
 connects to the server using the Client class. Once connected the Client that
 contains the Gui model sends it to the server with an unique ID. At the  moment
 of this writing the ID of the gui-model is hardcoded. In the future this will 
 be set to either a custom value or to one which gets generated by the 
 server (when we create a service based gui website). Using a unique gui id, 
 will make sure that the server can handle multiple applications.


 ### Client

 The client connects to the server. Multiple clients can be connected   
 to the same server at the same time. A client connection uses "gui ids"
 as described in the server paragraph above. There are two different 
 situations; one where the Client is purely a client and will receive 
 changes that are made in the gui (due to e.g. mouse presses, drags etc..)
 and one where besides receiving these changes a client also sends a 
 model of the Gui to the server (with that unique id). When a pure client
 connects to the server it asks for the Gui model so it can create the 
 gui (e.g. in the webgui part).


 ### TODO:

 - When an application with gui connects to the sever, it will send a
   json string which describes how the GUI looks like. This model is 
   stored on the server. At this moment we do not yet handle a situation
   where the application disconnects from the server that previously sent
   the gui model. Should we remove the model? Should we disconnect all 
   other clients that listening to this app?

